cdap-docs/developers-manual/source/getting-started/standalone/virtual-machine.rst, before:

.. meta::
    :author: Cask Data, Inc.
    :description: CDAP Virtual Machine
    :copyright: Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

============================================
Virtual Machine Image
============================================

.. highlight:: console

To use the **Virtual Machine image**:

- Download and install either `Oracle VirtualBox <https://www.virtualbox.org>`__ or
  `VMWare <http://www.vmware.com/products/player>`__ player to your environment.
- Download the CDAP Standalone Virtual Machine (*Standalone VM*) at `<http://cask.co/downloads/#cdap>`__.
- Import the downloaded ``.ova`` file into either the VirtualBox or VMWare Player.

The CDAP Standalone Virtual Machine is configured with the recommended settings for Standalone CDAP:

- 4 GB of RAM
- Ubuntu Desktop Linux
- 10 GB of disk space

It has pre-installed all the software that you need to run and develop CDAP applications:

.. include:: ../../../build/_includes/standalone-versioned.rst 
   :start-line: 2
   :end-line:   10

No password is required to enter the virtual machine; however, should you need to install or
remove software, the admin user and password are both ``cdap``.

.. include:: ../../../build/_includes/dev-env-versioned.rst  
   :start-line: 5

.. include:: ../../../build/_includes/start-stop-cdap-versioned.rst  
   :start-line: 4
   :end-line:   29

.. include:: ../building-apps.rst
   :start-line: 7

Commit message:

Fixes a broken doc build, and replaces the external release versioning and copying files with Sphinx's own system. Adds new replacement texts, and adds explicit release versions to the examples. Simplifies and speeds things up...

cdap-docs/developers-manual/source/getting-started/standalone/virtual-machine.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :author: Cask Data, Inc.
    :description: CDAP Virtual Machine
    :copyright: Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

============================================
Virtual Machine Image
============================================

.. highlight:: console

To use the **Virtual Machine image**:

- Download and install either `Oracle VirtualBox <https://www.virtualbox.org>`__ or
  `VMWare <http://www.vmware.com/products/player>`__ player to your environment.
- Download the CDAP Standalone Virtual Machine (*Standalone VM*) at `<http://cask.co/downloads/#cdap>`__.
- Import the downloaded ``.ova`` file into either the VirtualBox or VMWare Player.

The CDAP Standalone Virtual Machine is configured with the recommended settings for Standalone CDAP:

- 4 GB of RAM
- Ubuntu Desktop Linux
- 10 GB of disk space

It has pre-installed all the software that you need to run and develop CDAP applications:
   
- Java JDK 7 and Node.js are both installed.
- Maven is installed and configured to work for CDAP.
- The Standalone CDAP SDK is installed under ``/Software/cdap-sdk-``\ |literal-release|
  and will automatically start when the virtual machine starts.
- Both IntelliJ and Eclipse IDE are installed and will start when the virtual machine starts.
- The Firefox web browser starts when the machine starts. Its default home page is the CDAP Console,
  ``http://localhost:9999``.

No password is required to enter the virtual machine; however, should you need to install or
remove software, the admin user and password are both ``cdap``.

.. include:: ../dev-env.rst  
   :start-line: 7

.. include:: ../start-stop-cdap.rst  
   :start-line: 4
   :end-line:   33

.. include:: ../building-apps.rst
   :start-line: 7
