.. meta::
    :author: Cask Data, Inc.
    :copyright: Copyright © 2015 Cask Data, Inc.

.. _included-apps-etl-plugins-batch-sources-s3:

====================
Batch Sources: S3
====================

.. rubric:: Description

Batch source to use Amazon S3 as a Source.

.. rubric:: Use Case

This source is used whenever you need to read from Amazon S3.
For example, you may want to read in log files from S3 every hour and then store
the logs in a TimePartitionedFileSet.

.. highlight:: xml

.. rubric:: Properties

**accessID:** Access ID of the Amazon S3 instance to connect to.

**accessKey:** Access Key of the Amazon S3 instance to connect to.

**path:** Path to file(s) to be read. If a directory is specified,
terminate the path name with a \'/\'.

**fileRegex:** Regex to filter out filenames in the path.

.. include:: ../time-filter.txt 

**timeTable:** Name of the Table that keeps track of the last time files
were read in.

**inputFormatClass:** Name of the input format class, which must be a
subclass of FileInputFormat. Defaults to TextInputFormat.

**maxSplitSize:** Maximum split-size for each mapper in the MapReduce Job. Defaults to 128MB.

.. rubric:: Example

::

  {
    "name": "S3",
    "properties": {
      "accessKey": "key",
      "accessID": "ID",
      "path": "s3n://path/to/logs/",
      "fileRegex": "timefilter",
      "timeTable": "timeTable",
      "maxSplitSize": "1048576"
    }
  }

This example connects to Amazon S3 and reads in files found in the specified directory while
using the stateful ``timefilter``, which ensures that each file is read only once. The ``timefilter``
requires that files be named with either the convention "yy-MM-dd-HH..." (S3) or "...'.'yy-MM-dd-HH..."
(Cloudfront). The stateful metadata is stored in a table named 'timeTable'. With the maxSplitSize
set to 1MB, if the total size of the files being read is larger than 1MB, CDAP will
configure Hadoop to use one mapper per MB.
