cdap-docs/developers-manual/source/index.rst, before:

.. meta::
    :author: Cask Data, Inc.
    :description: Introduction to the Cask Data Application Platform
    :copyright: Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

.. _developer-index:

==================================================
CDAP Developers’ Manual
==================================================

.. |getting-started| replace:: **Getting Started:**
.. _getting-started: getting-started/index.html

- |getting-started|_ **A quick, hands-on introduction to CDAP,**  which guides you through
  installing the CDAP SDK, setting up your development environment, starting and stopping CDAP, 
  and building and running example applications.
  

.. |overview| replace:: **Overview:**
.. _overview: overview/index.html

- |overview|_ Covers the **overall architecture and technology behind CDAP,** including
  the virtualization of data and applications, CDAP concepts, components and their
  interactions, and the anatomy of a Big Data application.


.. |building-blocks| replace:: **Building Blocks:**
.. _building-blocks: building-blocks/index.html

- |building-blocks|_ This section covers **the two core virtualizations in the Cask Data
  Application Platform: Data and Applications.** Data virtualizations are grouped into
  Streams and Datasets. Application virtualizations are grouped into Flows, MapReduce,
  Spark, Workflows, and Services. Details are provided on working with these abstractions
  to build Big Data applications.


.. |security| replace:: **Security:**
.. _security: security/index.html

- |security|_ CDAP supports securing clusters using **perimeter security. Configuration
  and client authentication** are covered in this section.


.. |testing| replace:: **Testing and Debugging:**
.. _testing: testing/index.html

- |testing|_ CDAP has a **test framework** that developers can use with their applications, **tools and procedures
  for debugging ,** and recommendations on **packaging your completed application** prior to deployment.


.. |ingesting-tools| replace:: **Ingesting Data:**
.. _ingesting-tools: ingesting-tools/index.html

- |ingesting-tools|_ CDAP comes with a number of tools to make a developer’s life easier. These
  tools help with **ingesting data into CDAP:** using Java or Python, the bulk ingestion of files,
  a daemon to tail local files and an Apache Flume Sink implementation.


.. |advanced| replace:: **Advanced Topics:**
.. _advanced: advanced/index.html

- |advanced|_ Covers **advanced topics on CDAP** that will be of interest to
  developers who want a deeper dive into CDAP, with presentations on the **Data Exploration
  of Datasets**, **Best Practices for CDAP development**, and **Adapters**.
  

.. |(TM)| unicode:: U+2122 .. trademark sign
   :ltrim:

.. |(R)| unicode:: U+00AE .. registered trademark sign
   :ltrim:

Commit message:

CDAP-1156 adding documentation for exploration of streams and filesets. Moved data exploration out of the advanced section and into its own section. This is because there is is now much more content about exploration, and because we want exploration to be one of the starting points for people and not advanced usage.

cdap-docs/developers-manual/source/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :author: Cask Data, Inc.
    :description: Introduction to the Cask Data Application Platform
    :copyright: Copyright © 2014 Cask Data, Inc.

.. _developer-index:

==================================================
CDAP Developers’ Manual
==================================================

.. |getting-started| replace:: **Getting Started:**
.. _getting-started: getting-started/index.html

- |getting-started|_ **A quick, hands-on introduction to CDAP,**  which guides you through
  installing the CDAP SDK, setting up your development environment, starting and stopping CDAP, 
  and building and running example applications.
  

.. |overview| replace:: **Overview:**
.. _overview: overview/index.html

- |overview|_ Covers the **overall architecture and technology behind CDAP,** including
  the virtualization of data and applications, CDAP concepts, components and their
  interactions, and the anatomy of a Big Data application.


.. |building-blocks| replace:: **Building Blocks:**
.. _building-blocks: building-blocks/index.html

- |building-blocks|_ This section covers **the two core virtualizations in the Cask Data
  Application Platform: Data and Applications.** Data virtualizations are grouped into
  Streams and Datasets. Application virtualizations are grouped into Flows, MapReduce,
  Spark, Workflows, and Services. Details are provided on working with these abstractions
  to build Big Data applications.


.. |security| replace:: **Security:**
.. _security: security/index.html

- |security|_ CDAP supports securing clusters using **perimeter security. Configuration
  and client authentication** are covered in this section.


.. |testing| replace:: **Testing and Debugging:**
.. _testing: testing/index.html

- |testing|_ CDAP has a **test framework** that developers can use with their applications, **tools and procedures
  for debugging ,** and recommendations on **packaging your completed application** prior to deployment.


.. |ingesting-tools| replace:: **Ingesting Data:**
.. _ingesting-tools: ingesting-tools/index.html

- |ingesting-tools|_ CDAP comes with a number of tools to make a developer’s life easier. These
  tools help with **ingesting data into CDAP:** using Java or Python, the bulk ingestion of files,
  a daemon to tail local files and an Apache Flume Sink implementation.


.. |data-exploration| replace:: **Data Exploration:**
.. _data-exploration: data-exploration/index.html

- |data-exploration|_ Data in CDAP can be explored without writing any code through the use of ad-hoc SQL-like queries.
  Exploration of Streams and Datasets, along with integration with business intelligence tools, are covered in this section.


.. |advanced| replace:: **Advanced Topics:**
.. _advanced: advanced/index.html

- |advanced|_ Covers **advanced topics on CDAP** that will be of interest to
  developers who want a deeper dive into CDAP, with presentations on 
  **Best Practices for CDAP development**, and **Adapters**.
  

.. |(TM)| unicode:: U+2122 .. trademark sign
   :ltrim:

.. |(R)| unicode:: U+00AE .. registered trademark sign
   :ltrim:
