
                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
  without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

GNU General Public License

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street Fifth Floor Boston Ma 02110-1301 Usa

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.  This General Public License applies to
most of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you
can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You must
make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2)
offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software.  If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced
by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We
wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will
individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary.
To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for
everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License.  The "Program", below, refers to any such program
or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included
without limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as
"you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program).  Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the
Program a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
    that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
    in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
    licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of
    this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
    you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the
    most ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an
    appropriate copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or
    else, saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute
    the program under these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy
    of this License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but does
    not normally print such an announcement, your work based on the Program is
    not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms
of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire
whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
    code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
    on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
    give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
    performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
    corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1
    and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
    distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is allowed only
    for noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in
    object code or executable form with such an offer, in accord with
    Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source code means all
the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable.  However, as a special exception, the source code
distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on)
of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or
any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to
do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices.  Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

    One line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.

    Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
    Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
    any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
    ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
    more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
    with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
    Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
    with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type 'show w'.  This is free
    software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
    type 'show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands 'show w' and 'show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than 'show w' and 'show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary.  Here
is a sample; alter the names:

    Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
    'Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

    signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989

    Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General Public
License instead of this License.


"CLASSPATH" EXCEPTION TO THE GPL

Certain source files distributed by Oracle America and/or its affiliates are
subject to the following clarification and special exception to the GPL, but
only where Oracle has expressly included in the particular source file's header
the words "Oracle designates this particular file as subject to the "Classpath"
exception as provided by Oracle in the LICENSE file that accompanied this code."

    Linking this library statically or dynamically with other modules is making
    a combined work based on this library.  Thus, the terms and conditions of
    the GNU General Public License cover the whole combination.

    As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give you
    permission to link this library with independent modules to produce an
    executable, regardless of the license terms of these independent modules,
    and to copy and distribute the resulting executable under terms of your
    choice, provided that you also meet, for each linked independent module,
    the terms and conditions of the license of that module.  An independent
    module is a module which is not derived from or based on this library.  If
    you modify this library, you may extend this exception to your version of
    the library, but you are not obligated to do so.  If you do not wish to do
    so, delete this exception statement from your version.

APPLE PUBLIC SOURCE LICENSE Version 2.0 -  August 6, 2003

Please read this License carefully before downloading this software.  By
downloading or using this software, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of
this License.  If you do not or cannot agree to the terms of this License,
please do not download or use the software.

Apple Note:  In January 2007, Apple changed its corporate name from "Apple
Computer, Inc." to "Apple Inc."  This change has been reflected below and
copyright years updated, but no other changes have been made to the APSL 2.0.

1.	General; Definitions.  This License applies to any program or other work
which Apple Inc. ("Apple") makes publicly available and which contains a notice
placed by Apple identifying such program or work as "Original Code" and stating
that it is subject to the terms of this Apple Public Source License version 2.0
("License").  As used in this License:

1.1	 "Applicable Patent Rights" mean:  (a) in the case where Apple is the
grantor of rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter acquired,
owned by or assigned to Apple and (ii) that cover subject matter contained in
the Original Code, but only to the extent necessary to use, reproduce and/or
distribute the Original Code without infringement; and (b) in the case where You
are the grantor of rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter
acquired, owned by or assigned to You and (ii) that cover subject matter in Your
Modifications, taken alone or in combination with Original Code.

1.2	"Contributor" means any person or entity that creates or contributes to the
creation of Modifications.

1.3	 "Covered Code" means the Original Code, Modifications, the combination of
Original Code and any Modifications, and/or any respective portions thereof.

1.4	"Externally Deploy" means: (a) to sublicense, distribute or otherwise make
Covered Code available, directly or indirectly, to anyone other than You; and/or
(b) to use Covered Code, alone or as part of a Larger Work, in any way to
provide a service, including but not limited to delivery of content, through
electronic communication with a client other than You.

1.5	"Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or portions thereof
with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.6	"Modifications" mean any addition to, deletion from, and/or change to, the
substance and/or structure of the Original Code, any previous Modifications, the
combination of Original Code and any previous Modifications, and/or any
respective portions thereof.  When code is released as a series of files, a
Modification is:  (a) any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
containing Covered Code; and/or (b) any new file or other representation of
computer program statements that contains any part of Covered Code.

1.7	"Original Code" means (a) the Source Code of a program or other work as
originally made available by Apple under this License, including the Source Code
of any updates or upgrades to such programs or works made available by Apple
under this License, and that has been expressly identified by Apple as such in
the header file(s) of such work; and (b) the object code compiled from such
Source Code and originally made available by Apple under this License

1.8	"Source Code" means the human readable form of a program or other work that
is suitable for making modifications to it, including all modules it contains,
plus any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control
compilation and installation of an executable (object code).

1.9	"You" or "Your" means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under this License.  For legal entities, "You" or "Your" includes any entity
which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, You, where
"control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or
management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of
such entity.

2.	Permitted Uses; Conditions & Restrictions.   Subject to the terms and
conditions of this License, Apple hereby grants You, effective on the date You
accept this License and download the Original Code, a world-wide, royalty-free,
non-exclusive license, to the extent of Apple's Applicable Patent Rights and
copyrights covering the Original Code, to do the following:

2.1	Unmodified Code.  You may use, reproduce, display, perform, internally
distribute within Your organization, and Externally Deploy verbatim, unmodified
copies of the Original Code, for commercial or non-commercial purposes, provided
that in each instance:

(a)	You must retain and reproduce in all copies of Original Code the copyright
and other proprietary notices and disclaimers of Apple as they appear in the
Original Code, and keep intact all notices in the Original Code that refer to
this License; and

(b) 	You must include a copy of this License with every copy of Source Code of
Covered Code and documentation You distribute or Externally Deploy, and You may
not offer or impose any terms on such Source Code that alter or restrict this
License or the recipients' rights hereunder, except as permitted under Section
6.

2.2	Modified Code.  You may modify Covered Code and use, reproduce, display,
perform, internally distribute within Your organization, and Externally Deploy
Your Modifications and Covered Code, for commercial or non-commercial purposes,
provided that in each instance You also meet all of these conditions:

(a)	You must satisfy all the conditions of Section 2.1 with respect to the
Source Code of the Covered Code;

(b)	You must duplicate, to the extent it does not already exist, the notice in
Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code of all Your Modifications, and cause
the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files
and the date of any change; and

(c)	If You Externally Deploy Your Modifications, You must make Source Code of
all Your Externally Deployed Modifications either available to those to whom You
have Externally Deployed Your Modifications, or publicly available.  Source Code
of Your Externally Deployed Modifications must be released under the terms set
forth in this License, including the license grants set forth in Section 3
below, for as long as you Externally Deploy the Covered Code or twelve (12)
months from the date of initial External Deployment, whichever is longer. You
should preferably distribute the Source Code of Your Externally Deployed
Modifications electronically (e.g. download from a web site).

2.3	Distribution of Executable Versions.  In addition, if You Externally Deploy
Covered Code (Original Code and/or Modifications) in object code, executable
form only, You must include a prominent notice, in the code itself as well as in
related documentation, stating that Source Code of the Covered Code is available
under the terms of this License with information on how and where to obtain such
Source Code.

2.4	Third Party Rights.  You expressly acknowledge and agree that although
Apple and each Contributor grants the licenses to their respective portions of
the Covered Code set forth herein, no assurances are provided by Apple or any
Contributor that the Covered Code does not infringe the patent or other
intellectual property rights of any other entity. Apple and each Contributor
disclaim any liability to You for claims brought by any other entity based on
infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to
exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, You hereby assume sole
responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any.
For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow You to
distribute the Covered Code, it is Your responsibility to acquire that license
before distributing the Covered Code.

3.	Your Grants.  In consideration of, and as a condition to, the licenses
granted to You under this License, You hereby grant to any person or entity
receiving or distributing Covered Code under this License a non-exclusive,
royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license, under Your Applicable Patent
Rights and other intellectual property rights (other than patent) owned or
controlled by You, to use, reproduce, display, perform, modify, sublicense,
distribute and Externally Deploy Your Modifications of the same scope and extent
as Apple's licenses under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 above.

4.	Larger Works.  You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with
other code not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger
Work as a single product.  In each such instance, You must make sure the
requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code or any portion
thereof.

5.	Limitations on Patent License.   Except as expressly stated in Section 2, no
other patent rights, express or implied, are granted by Apple herein. 
Modifications and/or Larger Works may require additional patent licenses from
Apple which Apple may grant in its sole discretion.

6.	Additional Terms.  You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,
warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations and/or other rights
consistent with the scope of the license granted herein ("Additional Terms") to
one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You may do so only on Your own
behalf and as Your sole responsibility, and not on behalf of Apple or any
Contributor. You must obtain the recipient's agreement that any such Additional
Terms are offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify, defend and
hold Apple and every Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by or
claims asserted against Apple or such Contributor by reason of any such
Additional Terms.

7.	Versions of the License.  Apple may publish revised and/or new versions of
this License from time to time.  Each version will be given a distinguishing
version number.  Once Original Code has been published under a particular
version of this License, You may continue to use it under the terms of that
version. You may also choose to use such Original Code under the terms of any
subsequent version of this License published by Apple.  No one other than Apple
has the right to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this
License.

8.	NO WARRANTY OR SUPPORT.  The Covered Code may contain in whole or in part
pre-release, untested, or not fully tested works.  The Covered Code may contain
errors that could cause failures or loss of data, and may be incomplete or
contain inaccuracies.  You expressly acknowledge and agree that use of the
Covered Code, or any portion thereof, is at Your sole and entire risk.  THE
COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY, UPGRADES OR SUPPORT OF
ANY KIND AND APPLE AND APPLE'S LICENSOR(S) (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS "APPLE"
FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 8 AND 9) AND ALL CONTRIBUTORS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY
QUALITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT,
AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.  APPLE AND EACH CONTRIBUTOR DOES NOT
WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE COVERED CODE, THAT THE
FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE COVERED CODE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE
OPERATION OF THE COVERED CODE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT
DEFECTS IN THE COVERED CODE WILL BE CORRECTED.  NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION
OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE, AN APPLE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR
SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY.  You acknowledge that the Covered Code is not intended
for use in the operation of nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation,
communication systems, or air traffic control machines in which case the failure
of the Covered Code could lead to death, personal injury, or severe physical or
environmental damage.

9.	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT
SHALL APPLE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS LICENSE OR YOUR USE
OR INABILITY TO USE THE COVERED CODE, OR ANY PORTION THEREOF, WHETHER UNDER A
THEORY OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCTS LIABILITY OR
OTHERWISE, EVEN IF APPLE OR SUCH CONTRIBUTOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGES AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
REMEDY. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. In
no event shall Apple's total liability to You for all damages (other than as may
be required by applicable law) under this License exceed the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00).

10.	Trademarks.  This License does not grant any rights to use the trademarks
or trade names  "Apple", "Mac", "Mac OS", "QuickTime", "QuickTime Streaming
Server" or any other trademarks, service marks, logos or trade names belonging
to Apple (collectively "Apple Marks") or to any trademark, service mark, logo or
trade name belonging to any Contributor.  You agree not to use any Apple Marks
in or as part of the name of products derived from the Original Code or to
endorse or promote products derived from the Original Code other than as
expressly permitted by and in strict compliance at all times with Apple's third
party trademark usage guidelines which are posted at
http://www.apple.com/legal/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html.

11.	Ownership. Subject to the licenses granted under this License, each
Contributor retains all rights, title and interest in and to any Modifications
made by such Contributor.  Apple retains all rights, title and interest in and
to the Original Code and any Modifications made by or on behalf of Apple ("Apple
Modifications"), and such Apple Modifications will not be automatically subject
to this License.  Apple may, at its sole discretion, choose to license such
Apple Modifications under this License, or on different terms from those
contained in this License or may choose not to license them at all.

12.	Termination.

12.1	Termination.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will
terminate:

(a)	automatically without notice from Apple if You fail to comply with any
term(s) of this License and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming
aware of such breach; (b)	immediately in the event of the circumstances
described in Section 13.5(b); or (c)	automatically without notice from Apple if
You, at any time during the term of this License, commence an action for patent
infringement against Apple; provided that Apple did not first commence an action
for patent infringement against You in that instance.

12.2	Effect of Termination.  Upon termination, You agree to immediately stop
any further use, reproduction, modification, sublicensing and distribution of
the Covered Code.  All sublicenses to the Covered Code which have been properly
granted prior to termination shall survive any termination of this License. 
Provisions which, by their nature, should remain in effect beyond the
termination of this License shall survive, including but not limited to Sections
3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.2 and 13.  No party will be liable to any other for
compensation, indemnity or damages of any sort solely as a result of terminating
this License in accordance with its terms, and termination of this License will
be without prejudice to any other right or remedy of any party.

13. 	Miscellaneous.

13.1	Government End Users.   The Covered Code is a "commercial item" as defined
in FAR 2.101.  Government software and technical data rights in the Covered Code
include only those rights customarily provided to the public as defined in this
License. This customary commercial license in technical data and software is
provided in accordance with FAR 12.211 (Technical Data) and 12.212 (Computer
Software) and, for Department of Defense purchases, DFAR 252.227-7015 (Technical
Data -- Commercial Items) and 227.7202-3 (Rights in Commercial Computer Software
or Computer Software Documentation).  Accordingly, all U.S. Government End Users
acquire Covered Code with only those rights set forth herein.

13.2	Relationship of Parties.  This License will not be construed as creating
an agency, partnership, joint venture or any other form of legal association
between or among You, Apple or any Contributor, and You will not represent to
the contrary, whether expressly, by implication, appearance or otherwise.

13.3	Independent Development.   Nothing in this License will impair Apple's
right to acquire, license, develop, have others develop for it, market and/or
distribute technology or products that perform the same or similar functions as,
or otherwise compete with, Modifications, Larger Works, technology or products
that You may develop, produce, market or distribute.

13.4	Waiver; Construction.  Failure by Apple or any Contributor to enforce any
provision of this License will not be deemed a waiver of future enforcement of
that or any other provision.  Any law or regulation which provides that the
language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter will not apply to
this License.

13.5	Severability.  (a) If for any reason a court of competent jurisdiction
finds any provision of this License, or portion thereof, to be unenforceable,
that provision of the License will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible
so as to effect the economic benefits and intent of the parties, and the
remainder of this License will continue in full force and effect.  (b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if applicable law prohibits or restricts You from
fully and/or specifically complying with Sections 2 and/or 3 or prevents the
enforceability of either of those Sections, this License will immediately
terminate and You must immediately discontinue any use of the Covered Code and
destroy all copies of it that are in your possession or control.

13.6	Dispute Resolution.  Any litigation or other dispute resolution between
You and Apple relating to this License shall take place in the Northern District
of California, and You and Apple hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of,
and venue in, the state and federal courts within that District with respect to
this License. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for
the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.

13.7	Entire Agreement; Governing Law.  This License constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.  This
License shall be governed by the laws of the United States and the State of
California, except that body of California law concerning conflicts of law.

Where You are located in the province of Quebec, Canada, the following clause
applies:  The parties hereby confirm that they have requested that this License
and all related documents be drafted in English.  Les parties ont exigé que le
présent contrat et tous les documents connexes soient rédigés en anglais.

EXHIBIT A.

"Portions Copyright (c) 1999-2007 Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code as
defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License Version 2.0
(the 'License').  You may not use this file except in compliance with the
License.  Please obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this file.

The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are distributed
on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET
ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  Please see the License for the specific language
governing rights and limitations under the License." 

ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright (c) 1995-2016 International Business Machines Corporation and others

All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY
SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
of the copyright holder.


All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the
property of their respective owners.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation
(the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation
(the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files
or Software are furnished to do so, provided that
(a) this copyright and permission notice appear with all copies
of the Data Files or Software,
(b) this copyright and permission notice appear in associated
documentation, and
(c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or in the Software
as well as in the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or
Software that the data or software has been modified.

THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale,
use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior
written authorization of the copyright holder.

 #     The Google Chrome software developed by Google is licensed under
 # the BSD license. Other software included in this distribution is
 # provided under other licenses, as set forth below. 
 #
 #  The BSD License
 #  http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php
 #  Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Google Inc.
 #
 #  All rights reserved.

 #  The word list in cjdict.txt are generated by combining three word lists
 # listed below with further processing for compound word breaking. The
 # frequency is generated with an iterative training against Google web
 # corpora. 
 #
 #  * Libtabe (Chinese)
 #    - https://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=1519
 #    - Its license terms and conditions are shown below.
 #
 #  * IPADIC (Japanese)
 #    - http://chasen.aist-nara.ac.jp/chasen/distribution.html
 #    - Its license terms and conditions are shown below.

 #   * All rights reserved.
 #   *
 #   * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 #   * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 #   * are met:
 #   *
 #   * . Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 #   *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 #   * . Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 #   *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 #   *   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 #   *   distribution.
 #   * . Neither the name of the TaBE Project nor the names of its
 #   *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
 #   *   from this software without specific prior written permission.
 #   *
 #   * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 #   * "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 #   * LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 #   * FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 #   * REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 #   * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 #   * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
 #   * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 #   * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 #   * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 #   * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 #   * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

 #   All rights reserved.
 #   *
 #   * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 #   * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 #   * are met:
 #   *
 #   * . Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 #   *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 #   * . Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 #   *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 #   *   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 #   *   distribution.
 #   * . Neither the name of the Computer Systems and Communication Lab
 #   *   nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
 #   *   promote products derived from this software without specific
 #   *   prior written permission.
 #   *
 #   * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 #   * "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 #   * LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 #   * FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 #   * REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 #   * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 #   * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
 #   * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 #   * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 #   * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 #   * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 #   * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 #      University of Illinois
 #  c-tsai4@uiuc.edu  http://casper.beckman.uiuc.edu/~c-tsai4

 #  Use, reproduction, and distribution of this software is permitted.
 #  Any copy of this software, whether in its original form or modified,
 #  must include both the above copyright notice and the following
 #  paragraphs.
 #
 #  Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST),
 #  the copyright holders, disclaims all warranties with regard to this
 #  software, including all implied warranties of merchantability and
 #  fitness, in no event shall NAIST be liable for
 #  any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages
 #  whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an
 #  action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising out
 #  of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
 #
 #  A large portion of the dictionary entries
 #  originate from ICOT Free Software.  The following conditions for ICOT
 #  Free Software applies to the current dictionary as well.
 #
 #  Each User may also freely distribute the Program, whether in its
 #  original form or modified, to any third party or parties, PROVIDED
 #  that the provisions of Section 3 ("NO WARRANTY") will ALWAYS appear
 #  on, or be attached to, the Program, which is distributed substantially
 #  in the same form as set out herein and that such intended
 #  distribution, if actually made, will neither violate or otherwise
 #  contravene any of the laws and regulations of the countries having
 #  jurisdiction over the User or the intended distribution itself.
 #
 #  NO WARRANTY
 #
 #  The program was produced on an experimental basis in the course of the
 #  research and development conducted during the project and is provided
 #  to users as so produced on an experimental basis.  Accordingly, the
 #  program is provided without any warranty whatsoever, whether express,
 #  implied, statutory or otherwise.  The term "warranty" used herein
 #  includes, but is not limited to, any warranty of the quality,
 #  performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose of
 #  the program and the nonexistence of any infringement or violation of
 #  any right of any third party.
 #
 #  Each user of the program will agree and understand, and be deemed to
 #  have agreed and understood, that there is no warranty whatsoever for
 #  the program and, accordingly, the entire risk arising from or
 #  otherwise connected with the program is assumed by the user.
 #
 #  Therefore, neither ICOT, the copyright holder, or any other
 #  organization that participated in or was otherwise related to the
 #  development of the program and their respective officials, directors,
 #  officers and other employees shall be held liable for any and all
 #  damages, including, without limitation, general, special, incidental
 #  and consequential damages, arising out of or otherwise in connection
 #  with the use or inability to use the program or any product, material
 #  or result produced or otherwise obtained by using the program,
 #  regardless of whether they have been advised of, or otherwise had
 #  knowledge of, the possibility of such damages at any time during the
 #  project or thereafter.  Each user will be deemed to have agreed to the
 #  foregoing by his or her commencement of use of the program.  The term
 #  "use" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, the use,
 #  modification, copying and distribution of the program and the
 #  production of secondary products from the program.
 #
 #  In the case where the program, whether in its original form or
 #  modified, was distributed or delivered to or received by a user from
 #  any person, organization or entity other than ICOT, unless it makes or
 #  grants independently of ICOT any specific warranty to the user in
 #  writing, such person, organization or entity, will also be exempted
 #  from and not be held liable to the user for any such damages as noted
 #  above as far as the program is concerned.

 #  All Rights Reserved.
 #
 # Project: http://code.google.com/p/lao-dictionary/
 # Dictionary: http://lao-dictionary.googlecode.com/git/Lao-Dictionary.txt
 # License: http://lao-dictionary.googlecode.com/git/Lao-Dictionary-LICENSE.txt
 #              (copied below)
 #
 #  This file is derived from the above dictionary, with slight
 #  modifications. 

 #  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 #  modification, 
 #  are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 #
 #
 # Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
 #  list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in
 #  binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
 #  conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
 #  other materials provided with the distribution.
 #
 #
 # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 # "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 # LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 # FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 # COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
 # INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 # (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
 # SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 # ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 # OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

 #  All rights reserved.
 #
 #  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 #  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 #  are met: Redistributions of source code must retain the above
 #  copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
 #  disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the
 #  above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
 #  disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
 #  with the distribution.
 #
 #    Neither the name Myanmar Karen Word Lists, nor the names of its
 #    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
 #    from this software without specific prior written permission.
 #
 #  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
 #  CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
 #  INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
 #  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 #  DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS
 #  BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
 #  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
 #  TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 #  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
 #  ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
 #  TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
 #  THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 #  SUCH DAMAGE.

  ICU uses the public domain data and code derived from Time Zone
Database for its time zone support. The ownership of the TZ database
is explained in BCP 175: Procedure for Maintaining the Time Zone
Database section 7.

 # 7.  Database Ownership
 #
 #    The TZ database itself is not an IETF Contribution or an IETF
 #    document.  Rather it is a pre-existing and regularly updated work
 #    that is in the public domain, and is intended to remain in the
 #    public domain.  Therefore, BCPs 78 [RFC5378] and 79 [RFC3979] do
 #    not apply to the TZ Database or contributions that individuals make
 #    to it.  Should any claims be made and substantiated against the TZ
 #    Database, the organization that is providing the IANA
 #    Considerations defined in this RFC, under the memorandum of
 #    understanding with the IETF, currently ICANN, may act in accordance
 #    with all competent court orders.  No ownership claims will be made
 #    by ICANN or the IETF Trust on the database or the code.  Any person
 #    making a contribution to the database or code waives all rights to
 #    future claims in that contribution or in the TZ Database.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software is freely granted, provided that this notice
is preserved.

Common Public License - Version 1.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS COMMON PUBLIC
LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM
CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

      a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and
         documentation distributed under this Agreement, and
      b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

      i) changes to the Program, and

      ii) additions to the Program;

      where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are
distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a
Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone
acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to
the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in
conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are
not derivative works of the Program. 

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are
necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when
combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement,
including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

      a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and
such derivative works, in source code and object code form.

      b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under
Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise
transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and
object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the
Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the
Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be
covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any
other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is
licensed hereunder. 

      c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the
licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by
any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other
intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims
any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on
infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to
exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby
assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights
needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to
allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to
acquire that license before distributing the Program.

      d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license
set forth in this Agreement. 

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under
its own license agreement, provided that:

      a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

      b) its license agreement:

      i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title
and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose; 

      ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for
damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential
damages, such as lost profits; 

      iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are
offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

      iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on
or through a medium customarily used for software exchange. 

When the Program is made available in source code form:

      a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and 

      b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the
Program. 

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the
originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with
respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is
intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who
includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner
which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if
a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such
Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify
every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages
and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal
actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the
extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in
connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product
offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order
to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial
Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor
to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and
any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may
participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product
offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that
Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties
related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such
Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the
Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other
Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court
requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial
Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each
Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using
and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise
of rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to the risks and
costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of
data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY
CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST
PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY
WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS
GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such
provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with respect to
a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that Contributor to such
Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation
is filed. In addition, if Recipient institutes patent litigation against any
entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the
Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or
hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights
granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is
filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to
comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does
not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of
such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate,
Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as
reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement
and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue
and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in
order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be
modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to
publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time.
No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement.
IBM is the initial Agreement Steward. IBM may assign the responsibility to
serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version
of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program
(including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of
the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of
the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program
(including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated
in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to
the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether
expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not
expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the
intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this
Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year
after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial
in any resulting litigation. 
